Israel says that its troops have entered
Southern gaza's largest city the
military says its forces have now
reached the heart of Khan yunes and have
the city surrounded following what it
describes as the most intense day of
fighting so far Israel says it has
expanded its offensive into Southern
Gaza to eliminate Hamas which is
classified as a terrorist group by many
countries speaking on Tuesday night
Israel's primee minister Netanyahu said
his country's forces have so far killed
around half of Hamas commanders in the
Gaza
Strip our Fighters are expanding the
ground operation against Hamas in every
place in the strip including the South
tonight we operated there with massive
Force the Earth shook in
hanun the earth shook in jabalia we
besieged both of them there was no place
beyond our reach we took control of the
General Security command of Hamas our
brave soldiers are fighting powerfully
against the killers they are conducting
Close Quarters battles they are
eliminating terrorists Around the Clock
we have the upper hand in every
battle meanwhile the World Health
Organization says that the security
situation in Gaza is getting worse by
the hour as Israeli troop storm Khan
Unice in pursuit of Hamas there's little
hope for the hundreds of thousands
thousands of Palestinian civilians
caught up in the
crossfire 10 cities are now a common
side in cunis many Palestinians set up
camp in the city after fleeing Israeli
air strikes in Northern Gaza but being
here hasn't been safe either and it's
getting worse it's even difficult for
people to speak safely to
reporters
[Music]
and the dead are piling up outside the
MS oh God all the Arab world is looking
on and cannot stop the
Bloodshed what have they done why are
they being
killed what crime did they commit to die
this
death Israel's military has relased
footage that it says shows its Fighters
pushing deeper into Southern
Gaza 60 days since the beginning of the
war our forces are surrounding Khan
Yunis in southern
Gaza we are operating with
professionalism clearing the population
ahead of time from the combat
areas gazans have been told to move
further south to Rafa what awaits them
there there is more T
cities and a long queue to get drinking
water we're talking about the only
desalination plant in Rafa that is
providing inhabitants with clean water
it's powered by solar energy and we're
in winter so if that stops we will not
be able to provide people with any
water the United Nations says more than
80% of gaza's population have been
driven from their homes and space on
this small coastal strip is running out
many simply don't know where they can
find
refuge and join me now for more is
Marina Morana military analyst and
research fellow at the defense studies
department at Kings College London
welcome Marina uh Israeli forces said
yesterday they've been engaged in their
heaviest day of fighting since the start
of the military operation in Gaza is
this a new phase of Israel's military
operation that we're seeing here
good morning Ana yes it is a new phase
after the ceasefire or after the the end
of SE the ceasefire the mil military
operation had to be recalibrated and now
it seems like the northern part of Gaza
City is under control and cleared so
this new phase um even more destructive
than the previous one is about one of
the strongholds of um Hamas according to
the Israeli side which is Han unun and
so the operation here is very similar to
what we've seen uh with the Gaza City
namely the the troops are trying to
surround and control the area control
all exits to the
city you you say that this is uh even
more destructive than the first phase we
know Israeli forces are now in the heart
of Han uh Unis can you give us a sense
of what fighting in in such a dense
urban area would be would be like not to
mention the number of civilians who have
fled there from the
north it is an absolute nightmare for
any military to fight an urban fight
against a force that doesn't wear any
Insignia so essentially you don't know
who the enemy is and you have a lot of
civilians as you correctly stated there
so the risk of collateral damage of
shooting the wrong person is very high
and Israel tried to get the civilians
out but the problem is of course where
do they go and so they have now to
operate among these civilians going uh
literally house by house um trying to
clear it because Hamas also enjoys a
very extensive tunnel Network which is
believed to be Benise H Unice and so
this is a very important stronghold for
Hamas and this will be very difficult
because Hamas will be using the tunnels
and is able to surprise the Israeli
military at any point therefore the
Israeli military is trying to eliminate
as many tunnels as possible but it's um
not a very precise science in the sense
that they're trying to bump the tunnels
on the one hand on the other hand
they're filling them with liquid
explosives so it's it's a very um
combersome operation which carries a
very big humanitarian risk I mean
speaking of the the tunnels we've been
hearing reports that Israel is
considering flooding uh the Hamas
tunnels um running under with seawater I
mean is this something that's likely and
and and what do we know about the IDF
strategy for the coming days going
forward well there are indeed
considerations to use seawater to flood
the tunnels um now the US um hasn't
clearly positioned itself um towards
this idea it's still not clear whether
this operation will be conducted or not
uh on the one hand you have humanitarian
considerations and we have heard in the
report how little drinking water the
Palestinians have and that could further
undermine water supply if um the IDF
were to use this strategy to flood the
tunnels and the other problem is
military because nobody knows the extent
of the tunnels and what effect seawat
will have on them whether the strategy
will work so the humanitarian risk is
huge and you don't know if you will get
a military Advantage from using that so
I assume combat engineers will be busy
um trying different Technologies and how
to best uh literally flat out Hamas and
possibly the hostages because um there
are also hostages somewhere in those
tunnels about 100 of them so you are
risking killing the hostages which uh
would of course damage Israel's
reputation on the international stage so
it it is quite a tricky operation I
don't know if they are going to go ahead
with it or proceed further with liquid
explosives and
bombardments Marina thanks so much for
that analysis that's Marina from
King's College
London thank you so
much and DW senior International
correspondent Fanny Fatar joins me now
from Jerusalem hi Fanny what is the aim
uh of the Israeli troops now that they
are in
khun the aim is to crou Hamas to take
out Hamas but in especially take out
those Hamas officials that are presumed
to be behind the terrorist attacks on
October 7th that is uh the hamas's chief
uh Mr SVA he's believed to be in the
second largest city of Gaza Strip in
runis but while this is going on while
Israeli forces are pushing deeper and
deeper into the City and circling it
that also means obviously pushing out
people who have been finding Refuge
there over the past couple of weeks who
have been pushed basically from northern
Gaza because they've been told that the
south is safe or at least safer but
that's not the case apparently obviously
as uh we are not just talking about
Ground Forces uh uh encircling the city
but also about continued Relentless
bombardment from air and this is what
makes this entire situation so difficult
because as Israel says it is doing what
it has to do to take revenge on what
happened here in Israel on October 7th
it also means a humanitarian consequence
and that in numbers Accord according to
uh the numbers that we hear from Gaza
more than 16,000 people killed so far
civilians many among those civilians are
children and women we cannot exactly
verify this number but the what we can
for sure say that the humanitarian
situation is growing disastrous by the
hour as this fighting continues and
there is increasing International
pressure on Israel to reduce the number
of Civilian uh casualties in Gaza do we
know if this is having any effect at all
on its tactics on the
ground well really if you look at what's
happening there that people are trying
to leave on foot trying to leave hand
units towards the rougher border which
by the way is also not safe there's been
a bombardment there uh in in in Rafa as
well so if you just look at what people
are going through right now and for
weeks now really uh in fear in
desperation trying to find a safe
shelter and by safety I don't only mean
a place with a roof on the top of your
uh above the top of your head but also
access to safe and clean water and food
if you look at that on the ground you do
not actually see any Improvement uh
whatsoever and in fact uh the human
rights organizations are saying that the
only thing that can help right now is a
ceasefire uh but that's exactly not what
we are uh seeing we are seeing calls we
hearing calls by the United States one
of the biggest Ally of Israel saying
that Israel yes has to defend itself but
it also needs to make sure that it
limits the casualties on the ground but
uh how is that supposed to work
obviously as Gaza Strip is being H is is
is facing this constant bombardment
that's the big question the uh Israeli
Prime Minister has said that the
military will have uh security control
over the Gaza Strip long after uh the
war against Hamas ends do we know at all
what that might look
like it it's really up to anyone's guess
what's going to to happen once this
ground offensive is over once the
fighting is over because controlling is
one thing governing is another and even
if Israel is succeeding to take out the
the the the hamus fighters one has to
understand that this organization that
is being described a as a a terrorist
organization is not only a militant
organization but it also is a social
movement it's completely unclear really
just after this war how much Israel is
able to win over the hearts of people
and that's going to be very difficult
after what's playing out there the
violence and really the Bloodshed DW
senior International correspondent funny
feta in Jerusalem thanks so much
funny